DEVELOPMENT.md, before:

# Development

## Setup

First things first, you'll need to fork and clone the repository to your local machine.

`git clone https://github.com/ecosyste-ms/archives.git`

The project uses ruby on rails which have a number of system dependencies you'll need to install. 

- [ruby](https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/documentation/installation/)
- [node.js 16+](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)

Once you've got all of those installed, from the root directory of the project run the following commands:

```
bundle install
rails server
```

You can then load up [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to access the service.

### Docker

Alternatively you can use the existing docker configuration files to run the app in a container.

Run this command from the root directory of the project to start the service.

`docker-compose up --build`

You can then load up [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to access the service.

For access the rails console use the following command:

`docker-compose exec app rails console`

## Tests

The applications tests can be found in [test](test) and use the testing framework [minitest](https://github.com/minitest/minitest).

You can run all the tests with:

`rails test`

## Deployment

A container-based deployment is highly recommended, we use [dokku.com](https://dokku.com/).

Commit message:

Replace Puma with Falcon for web server

DEVELOPMENT.md, after:

# Development

## Setup

First things first, you'll need to fork and clone the repository to your local machine.

`git clone https://github.com/ecosyste-ms/archives.git`

The project uses ruby on rails which have a number of system dependencies you'll need to install. 

- [ruby](https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/documentation/installation/)
- [node.js 16+](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)

Once you've got all of those installed, from the root directory of the project run the following commands:

```
bundle install
bundle exec falcon serve -b http://localhost:3000
```

You can then load up [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to access the service.

**Note**: This app uses [Falcon](https://github.com/socketry/falcon) web server with fiber-based concurrency for handling burst traffic efficiently.

### Docker

Alternatively you can use the existing docker configuration files to run the app in a container.

Run this command from the root directory of the project to start the service.

`docker-compose up --build`

You can then load up [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to access the service.

For access the rails console use the following command:

`docker-compose exec app rails console`

## Tests

The applications tests can be found in [test](test) and use the testing framework [minitest](https://github.com/minitest/minitest).

You can run all the tests with:

`rails test`

## Deployment

A container-based deployment is highly recommended, we use [dokku.com](https://dokku.com/).
